Let's have a look at another important built-in object in Javascript, the date object. The date object
allows you to easily create dates, work with them, parse them and so on.
For example if I wanted to have variable which stores today's date, I could simply create a new date
like this, new Date, again date is a built-in object and if I now log today to the console, I'm not
going to ask what we'll see because you don't know the day at which I am recording this but if I hit
run, I get an object which would be today.
Now of course, this is not really satisfying because we're not seeing today
but if I execute the toString method which again is available since it is provided by Object.prototype,
you won't see it print out like this.
So this is an easy and convenient way to get the most recent date,
however you can create this in a different way.
This is the default date created when just using new date like this
but you can pass arguments to this constructor here,
you can pass for example the year, the month and the day to not use today's date
but instead, generate a specific date.
What do you think we'll now see if he hit run? We get the same format but now notice that the day
or the specific date here is another one,
we're now using the 26th of June, 2016.
Now you might be wondering why June if this was 5,
well because it starts at 0, so January is not one but instead zero, like in an array with the elements
or the index in an array.
So that's important to keep in mind, that you have to subtract one off the actual number, so the highest
available month is 11 therefore which is December.
Now what happens if I want to create a date which doesn't exist, like the 32nd of December?
Let's see what happens.
Well now we get January 1st of 2017,
so it automatically counts it up to the next month or the next day
here. You can also specify a string which describes your days,
however this has to be a valid format and I'll come back to this valid format thing.
So one valid format would be this one here
and if I now hit run, what do you think we'll now see?
Well now we got the 20th of May,
so here it's not starting at zero because here we have a string, no numbers and we just write our date
.
However as mentioned, this has to be valid
and how do you find out what the date object likes and what it doesn't like and how it formats the date
?
Well you can google for js, for Javascript and then date and then you should get this article from
the MDN, the Mozilla Developer Network and if you click on this article, you'll find more information
on date
and you also find a link to this in the cheatsheet attached to this module
and here you'll find all the information you need, including a link describing how the date should be
formatted and which formats are being able to be parsed and read.
You can not only create dates with the new keyword here, you can also use some static methods which
exists on the date object,
for example the parse method to also pass a string there and I'll get rid of this today variable and
if I now hit run, I get a strange number.
What's that?
Well that is the amount of milliseconds since the first January in 1970,
that is where the date starts in Javascript, 1st January of 1970.
So this is where it starts and this is the amount of milliseconds which passed from 1st January of
1970 to this date here.
You could also, to reintroduce the today
variable with new date, log something specific of this date,
for example get date,
which if I run it gives us 7 which is basically the day in the month.
So today is the 7th of June, therefore I get 7.
I could also log get day and this is not the same as get date,
here we get the day in the week,
2nd here since
it starts counting at Sunday which is zero,
Monday is one and today is Tuesday, so this is 2nd.
And again I could go through all these methods but if you have a look at the date article, you'll find
a pretty good overview over all the built-in methods you can use on dates
and this makes much more sense than if I start going over every one of those methods which basically
all allow you to transform dates, extract certain data, parse dates.
That is what the date object does and that is why it is this important,
it's very important to have such an object to work with date in your application and to work with them
in a uniform way, not being distorted by your local language settings or anything like that.
So therefore, definitely check this out
and again, you'll find a link in the cheatsheet attached to this module.